src/docs/usage/creating-docs.mdx, before:

---
title: Creating docs
description: Learn how to create docs using Rocket Docs.
---

All MDX files created inside your docs folder will become pages, with the path defined by the filename.
Inside all docs files, you can define the following options:

| Key                    | Required | Description                |
| ---------------------- | -------- | -------------------------- |
| title                  | Yes      | No                         |
| description            | No       | Page description           |
| image                  | No       | Used for og:image          |
| disableTableOfContents | No       | Disables Table Of Contents |

## Example

```mdx
---
title: 'My Example'
description: 'A simple description for this page'
image: /banner.jpeg
disableTableOfContents: false
---

Wow, this is a nice page
```

## Embeding files

In a documentation website, sometimes you will need to embed well known services (like CodeSandbox, Twitter, or others...). If you need to
do it, you can simply copy-paste the link (powered by the awesome [gatsby-remark-embeder](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/packages/gatsby-remark-embedder/)).
Make sure to check the [supported services](https://github.com/MichaelDeBoey/gatsby-remark-embedder#supported-services).

https://youtu.be/QfcozcbDhNM

## Code Highlight

We support many options for code components.

### Title

To show a title, just add it to your code block. Ex: `title=src/myfile.css`

```css title=src/myfile.css
.gatsby::before {
  content: 'niceee...';
}
```

### Line numbers

To add line numbers for that code block, pass an option `lineNumbers=true`.

```js lineNumbers=true
const rocket = {
  launch: () => console.log('Launching...'),
};

rocket.launch();
```

### React live

As mentioned in the introduction, this theme uses `react-live`, so you can
create a playground for live editing React components.

To use it, just add a `live=true` option to your code block.

```jsx lineNumbers=true title=gatsby-config.js live=true
function MyComponent() {
  function handleButtonClick() {
    alert('wowww');
  }

  return <button onClick={handleButtonClick}>Hey, click me!</button>;
}

render(<MyComponent />);
```

> If you need to add elements to the scope, check this [guide](/usage/shadowing#adding-elements-to-react-live-scope).

### Highlight lines

To highlight lines, you can pass ranges to a `highlight` option.
For example `highlight={1-4,6-7,9}` on the code below would result in:

```jsx highlight={1-4,6-7,9}
function MyComponent() {
  function handleButtonClick() {
    alert('wowww');
  }

  return <button onClick={handleButtonClick}>Hey, click me!</button>;
}

render(<MyComponent />);
```

Commit message:

Setup complete (mostly) with generated API

src/docs/usage/creating-docs.mdx, after:

---
title: Creating docs
description: Learn how to create docs using Rocket Docs.
---

All MDX files created inside your docs folder will become pages, with the path defined by the filename.
Inside all docs files, you can define the following options:

| Key                    | Required | Description                |
| ---------------------- | -------- | -------------------------- |
| title                  | Yes      | No                         |
| description            | No       | Page description           |
| image                  | No       | Used for og:image          |
| disableTableOfContents | No       | Disables Table Of Contents |

> All MDX files created inside your docs folder will become pages, with the path defined by the filename.
Inside all docs files, you can define the following options:

## Example

```mdx
---
title: 'My Example'
description: 'A simple description for this page'
image: /banner.jpeg
disableTableOfContents: false
---

Wow, this is a nice page
```

## Embeding files

In a documentation website, sometimes you will need to embed well known services (like CodeSandbox, Twitter, or others...). If you need to
do it, you can simply copy-paste the link (powered by the awesome [gatsby-remark-embeder](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/packages/gatsby-remark-embedder/)).
Make sure to check the [supported services](https://github.com/MichaelDeBoey/gatsby-remark-embedder#supported-services).

https://youtu.be/QfcozcbDhNM

## Code Highlight

We support many options for code components.

### Title

To show a title, just add it to your code block. Ex: `title=src/myfile.css`

```css title=src/myfile.css
.gatsby::before {
  content: 'niceee...';
}
```

### Line numbers

To add line numbers for that code block, pass an option `lineNumbers=true`.

```js lineNumbers=true
const rocket = {
  launch: () => console.log('Launching...'),
};

rocket.launch();
```

### React live

As mentioned in the introduction, this theme uses `react-live`, so you can
create a playground for live editing React components.

To use it, just add a `live=true` option to your code block.

```jsx lineNumbers=true title=gatsby-config.js live=true
function MyComponent() {
  function handleButtonClick() {
    alert('wowww');
  }

  return <button onClick={handleButtonClick}>Hey, click me!</button>;
}

render(<MyComponent />);
```

> If you need to add elements to the scope, check this [guide](/usage/shadowing#adding-elements-to-react-live-scope).

### Highlight lines

To highlight lines, you can pass ranges to a `highlight` option.
For example `highlight={1-4,6-7,9}` on the code below would result in:

```jsx highlight={1-4,6-7,9}
function MyComponent() {
  function handleButtonClick() {
    alert('wowww');
  }

  return <button onClick={handleButtonClick}>Hey, click me!</button>;
}

render(<MyComponent />);
```
